 Until full payment has been made, GMS Designs retains ownership of all original artwork/files or parts contained therein, whether preliminary or final. Upon full payment, the client shall obtain ownership of the final artwork/files to use and distribute as they see fit. GMS Designs retains the right to use the completed project and any preliminary designs for the purpose of design competitions, future publications on design, educational purposes, marketing materials and portfolio. Where applicable, the client will be given any necessary credit for usage of the project elements. Any trade-sensitive information, such as product pricing or customer data, shall be redacted by the designer prior to use.





The client will assume any shipping or insurance costs related to the project. Any alteration or deviation from the above specifications involving extra costs will be executed only upon approval with the client. The designer shall not incur any liability or penalty for delays in the completion of the project due to actions or negligence of client, unusual transportation delays, unforeseen illness, or external forces beyond the control of the designer. If such event(s) occur, it shall entitle the designer to extend the completion/delivery date, by the time equivalent to the period of such delay.

This clause is designed to avoid the all-too-common situation where a client is delayed in getting their feedback to you and you therefore have less time to implement the changes. It states up front that you will extend your time frame according to the length of their delay. In the actual situation, that may not be possible or your choice, but at least you’ve provided for it as an option.




 Claims for defects, damages and/or shortages must be made by the client in writing within a period of ten (10) days after delivery of all or any part of the order. Failure to make such claim within the stated period shall constitute irrevocable acceptance and an admission that they fully comply with terms, conditions and specifications.




In the event of cancellation of the project, ownership of all copyrights and the original artwork and disks shall be retained by GMS Designs (Gerry Suchy), and a fee for work completed, based on the contract price and expenses already incurred, shall be paid by the client.

It’s a good idea to have a clause outlining what will happen and what charges will be incurred in the event of a cancellation of the project. If the cancellation is due to reasons beyond your control, a kill fee should be applied according to a percentage representing the stage of the work completed. The Graphic Artists Guild Handbook states, “Typical charges for services rendered can be 25–50 percent if the work is killed during the initial sketch stage, 50 percent if killed after completion of the sketch stage and 100 percent if killed after the final design is completed.” You should also allow for payment in the event that the work is rejected due to client dissatisfaction, which also depends on where in the process the project is. GAG also states, “Common cancellation fees are one-third of the total fee if canceled before completion of final art, and 50–100 percent after the final artwork is completed.” This is subject to negotiation but should be provided for.