Roguelike
Permadeath
Top-Down
Randomly generated Solar Systems
Turned-based Tactical Gameplay
Space Opera
Space Exploration
Alien
Stranded
Lost in space
Unexplored region of the universe
find its way back home
Treacherous
Scifi
Laser, Phaser, Missile, Torpedo
Crafting
Wormhole
Converter of Yendor
Matter-to-Energy Converter
Starving
Anomaly, Wormhole, Planet, Sun, Derelic Ships
Pixel art by Spyros
Insipired by all the great scifi tropes!
Sarcastically difficult
Touch Screen Gaming



• 13 ships
• 6 weapons
• more than 24 items
• 8 different planet types
• 12 main levels and 3 optional branches
• 3 races each with unique characteristics


Sometimes the RNG will require you to make all the sacrifices and know every details of the game just to make it past the 3rd system. Sometimes you'll get the best gun after killing your first ennemy and die from pure overconfidence. Either way, you'll come back for more.

Captain, We the crew would like to go home.

Solar rogue is a space exploration adventure in the purest tradition of roguelike. Featuring procedurally generated solar systems, perma-death, tactical turned-based gameplay and a variety of ships, planets and ennemy to challenge!

The year is 2371, The Federation Scout Ship <insert name> is patrolling the borders of known space in a region called the Bermuda Triangle. Deep in uncharted space you jump through an unrepertoried wormhole. It should have been a simple jump, but now things will never be the same...

Something went wrong. While you were exploring uncharted space an unknown wormhole took you off course. What you do know is that your warp engine aren't powerful enough to open it again. Use what you have, look for ressources and try to find a way back to civilization.

Start with the most basic ship and equipment. Look for ressources to survive. Craft or "acquire" better weapons, new ships and meet new ennemies!

Can you find the ultimate artifact to bring you home ?

loot everything you can in order to survive

(inspired by sproggywood)
Bring your crew home, a turn-based tactical roguelike space opera. Craft new ship and explore procedurally generated solar systems.


Space Adventure Roguelike. You get one life to finish the game or you have to start from the beginning. 

• Transform items into energy to survive
• Fight ennemies
• Use your energy to craft new weapons and ships
• Go through 12 increasingly difficult solar systems until your reach the ultimate artifact
• Run back up with the artifact to complete the game and record your high-score
• Now do it again and try to beat your best score!

※ The game is available for offline playing.
※ No Ads or Microtransactions

◆

----

Link to discord for tips and trick ?

